You want to know something funny I uh this isn't embarrassing, I want to say it anyway.
[Music]
Hey can you tell me about the benchmarking stuff? I just can't wait any longer,
I just need to know like how slow is Vercelle? How slow is Vercelle uh yeah okay so I guess for
some context what I found interesting is it seems like nobody actually benchmarks providers as much
as I thought they would and I think everyone's got in the same position where I'm like oh everyone
says it's fast someone else probably benchmarked it and we're probably assuming the same thing
and uh AJ actually told me the other day that no one had really benchmarked AWS until
like max had that like nice lambda cold start page and that was like what like a year ago
but I think we're just in this funny situation where like we're all engineers but we don't like
really do the engineering stuff a lot of the time yeah um which I get because like you know
one these speed differences might not even matter like you're gonna use the thing you want to use
and you'll just eat the performance overhead if it gives you other benefits but yesterday I was
like okay we built this open next sst thing and deployed next s to AWS we didn't really focus on
performance we were just kind of like let's just make it work and we'll figure out performance later
I assumed that it was just gonna be slower because of that because we know we didn't do anything special
so let me just run a benchmark so I ran it and the results were really surprising I thought open
next would probably be like I was ballparking like maybe like 30 percent slower in general
um it turned out it was actually three times faster and for the mean latency uh the throughput
was also insanely higher I think so I did a benchmark of like 10 seconds 20 concurrent requests
constantly hitting it for 10 for 10 seconds I think the throughput was like almost four times more
on the AWS self-hosted version with open next so this was kind of shocking I was like their brand
is just so much around we focus on making your front ends run well and I think that's true of
how some of the React framework is designed but I think I've always said this performance comes a
lot from architecture like if you improve your architecture you can probably like make a much
bigger impact and improving like oh this function executes faster in my code base so yeah that's
kind of what's that play here is their architecture is probably really complicated for two reasons
I think one reason being they have a lot of additional features that the virtual dashboard
offers and some of these are good features so they probably have to execute some extra stuff to
support them and then two they're in the challenging situation of you know they potentially need to
support a million deployments on their AWS account that means they're running up on all kinds of like
AWS limits all kinds of workarounds they need to do so that part the first part if they have
additional features okay maybe worth the performance trade-off the second part where
them having a scale to a million deployments is not your problem that's their problem
they're getting worse performance for that reason I think again I'm all theorizing
at why it could be so much slower but that to me is like that's like a less acceptable like
I'm not gonna get worse performance just so they can scale more you know yeah yeah there I can see
the self-hosting side being worth it so we're just to clarify were these API requests or these were
like SSR rendering pages yeah so the thing that I posted yesterday was very simple it was just a
hello world type API route just to keep it as stripped down as possible because of what I was
actually looking to test was what the next year's runtime overhead was of just having a simple API
route yeah but I just kind of discovered this other thing I did run benchmarks on like the root page
which is an which is a React server component page also it was also like drastically different
there as well so it doesn't I don't think there's a difference between API router or any other stuff
yeah and it puts into question like if it's this much worse all the streaming stuff that they added
like does that even compensate for that that that is that even worth it on top of all this
like we haven't added streaming and we will and then and so we'll improve the performance even
beyond what we have now but yeah it really confuses me because it's like this is the most basic
thing like what's the server what's the delay from the server and you yep and that's like where
you start optimizing things and I feel like they focus on a bunch of other places while the core
is is kind of slow I mean I've realized when I saw this stuff yesterday that you posted that all
of my stuff on our cell is just like simple websites that don't even have an API just like
informational websites and the only like full stack site where there's like a back end and I
used API routes and I used Prisma 2 so that's probably a lot of the problem but the only one I've ever
built in the point of our cell is so stupid slow I just assumed I was doing something wrong and
then I learned like Prisma's giant and like Prisma in a lambda function is just a bad bad deal I learned
that so that's probably explains a lot of it but I was really surprised and I think it's like it's
kind of like when somebody yells at a crowd for help you just assume somebody's taking care like
someone has done this work if you get out there for cell slow turns out no you just did it yesterday
and that's very surprising yeah it's a diffusion of diffusion of responsibility thing it's like we
all just assume someone else gonna take care of it and it just doesn't happen yeah so it's
interesting so I didn't get a response from them I'm sure they're actually no I did that one of
their employees replied being like and I kind of gave him my setup and he's gonna explore yeah like
they could I've talked to AJ for a bit AJ had a bunch of theories on what they might be doing
behind the scenes that causes some of this because he was at serverless ink when they kind of had
their hosted offering I think they had to do a bunch of weird workarounds also to deal with
just the challenges you're trying to you know support a million deployments so I'm used to like
the true the main tradeoff seems to always be like developer experience or runtime performance
I don't feel like that's like inherently should be the case I feel like we should get to a place
where we have both but it turns out Vercel is that too I didn't know that I was actually sacrificing
runtime performance inherently by deploying to Vercel but like they tout all these dx features
like it's so easy to use at the cost of runtime performance sounds like yeah there's that historical
advice I don't remember exactly how the quote goes it's like make it work make it something make it
fast or whatever I forgot what that is make it work make it good make it fast or something like
that something like that yeah and I find that you can you can you can rearrange that quote in every
any order and you can kind of be like oh that makes sense and I think for us our order is
like we don't have an amazing dashboard or console which is an amazing hook if you're trying
to sell something like Vercel so you show off that look how easy it is that like magic experience
and I think that's kind of where they focused and they when you focus on a certain area you
kind of compromising the others so it might be performance they compromise on also just like
like structure of the project like it's not open source is closed source things like that it's
because they did things in a certain order I think for us we took a harder direction where we were
like let's make it open source first which has his own challenges okay let's make it perform
well which has his own challenges and then now we're getting to okay we're going to eventually
have a dashboard that feels like as magical to use as as Vercels but it's just a different order but
I like our order better because I feel like it leads to something that's sustainable and healthy
whereas the other one grows really big up front because you can really hook a lot of people and then
then you have a bunch of work you have to now do afterward now that you have this this attention
on you yeah I'm so glad though I got out of that world and I'm now just a Laravel developer I'm
never gonna touch next year's or Vercel again wait can we could SST deploy Laravel apps when will
that be a thing uh does that make sense I mean there's Laravel vapor right which is some kind of
serverless deployment option for Laravel so can you just like copy what they did with vapor
and build in into SST yeah we probably I'll talk to Frank I'll get I'll get Frank on it
is that an implication that Frank does all the work yeah no just like he does these new framework
right he just itself that's true we've been we've been laughing so hard at Frank because uh he's like
weirdly becoming a world expert on how all these frameworks work under the hood but he just does
not do front-end development at all so he knows like the exact build processes felt kit and all
their little quirks and how it worked under the hood but like he could never build a spell app
and then he like he does never use next JS and he like he's never used remix and he does understand
any of the conversations that anyone is having about any of these things but he weirdly knows
more about the stuff than anyone it's just like a weird weird situation but yeah that's what happens
in your working infrastructure I guess yeah now I want to see like a youtube video of Frank building
a front-end app that would just be that would be my day can we please make that happen yeah exactly
and he has all his opinions on what he likes and what he doesn't like but it's really related to
like how annoying their internals are so yeah next JS is the most annoying by far right yes yeah yeah
I mean yes everyone else I got tried svelte I got tried the svelte experience people who get
really passionate about svelte my experience was kind of interesting because I was there was a
moment where I knew I didn't want to do react anymore so I was like okay what are the options
and svelte really seemed like it was it I was like I'm gonna be in the svelte world I'm gonna do svelte
but literally right when I was about to go all in uh Ryan published solid 1.0 or I think it was
right before solid 1.0 he had some blog posts that went viral about solid JS and I saw it and I was
like I think I already said this before but I was like oh great another like stupid framework that
looks like react like what's the point of this but it intrigued me enough to like be like okay
maybe I should do more research before I commit to svelte and then that's when I researched solid
and then uh I ended up using that but it just goes to show that yeah so I'm like super in the
solid world I'm building everything in solid but it's like just sheer random coincidence and timing
that that made it so that I uh I used it if if it came out that blog posts came out a week later
I don't think I would be using solid wild sliding doors of tech now next is like one of the big
solid people you're one of the big solid advocates yeah and you could have been doing the same
for svelte who knows what that world would have been like and that means I would have been pro
vercel probably oh yeah alternate universe you might be working at vercel right now oh my god
I feel like I'm working at vercelte without much invention right now right you're doing that work
for them so tell me about this Laravel I curiosity I wanted to make a video so I'm like a free agent
right now like I've left react I don't like that by the way you don't like what me being a free
agent I can be what I want to be a agent I need to know where you are I need to pin
any of them down I don't like being a attorney you can end up anywhere you could end up somewhere
I don't want you to end up maybe I could maybe I could what are you gonna do about it what's the
problem with me ended up anywhere what's gonna I just won't talk to you anymore you just don't
know you just don't want me to be cool you think I'm gonna become cool because I'm gonna get into
some technology that you're not in on yet and then we'll have problems because you like to be the
cool don't worry about you be coming cool that's fair totally fair so Laravel I want to make a video
now that I'm done with react forever and ever I wanted to make a video of my first impressions
of Laravel because I hear it's like they live right beside us they're like our neighbor that
we never really hang out with nice neighbor yeah our nice neighbor the kind considerate neighbor
that like brings your trash to the front door like so it brings your trash can in when it's
out on the street you know that neighbor but then you never interact with them outside of like hey how
how are you I know you had Aaron on your stream so I'm gonna I'm gonna give you credit for that
uh but like they just seem like our cousins and at the same time we have everything in common
nothing in common and I wanted to know what's it all about so I'm making a video of my first
impressions I just spent like an hour going through like Laravel getting started stuff and it's
incredible I can't believe how good it is and I can't believe we chose this path of JavaScript on the
back end and all the drama why is it so I got to figure this out you got to help me you'll you'll
think through this the right way you'll come to the right answer what is it about the Laravel
community that doesn't they're not invested in all the drama they don't get caught up in it and why
does the JavaScript community get so caught up and just like petty stupid stuff is it an age thing my
best theory is older wiser developers use PHP and they don't get caught up in the games of children
and that's the problem with JavaScript ecosystem is that a good theory yeah I can give you my grand
theory are you ready for it yes ready for a grand theory yeah I think this follows a lot of other
things in the world and life in general when you have something that's homogenous and low scale it
tends to be very stable and people tend to look at it as wow like why can't we be like that like
think about how America is always compared to like some Scandinavian country and because you
know the Scandinavian countries smaller people are very very similar culturally very the same
in America we have just complete much bigger scale and complete chaos and who we are where we come
from etc the Laravel is Finland it's what you're telling me yeah it's like everyone's everyone's
happy and there's not too much it's kind of like very stable and and like that I think it's because
you know they all like what Taylor's done with Laravel everyone pretty much agrees like that's
that works I'm sure there's some like you know I'm not going to like paint an extreme picture I'm
sure there's like disagreement of course it's when whenever there's engineers evolved there's
going to be disagreement yeah but it's different than like crazy the crazy level of competition that
exists in the JavaScript world it's just way way way bigger right it's massive compared to
the PHP world why why though so what are the forces that led to JavaScript being so much bigger
than PHP it's a it's a minority rule thing right uh the intolerant minorities always
again with different words there's a concept called minority rule which is a thing where
when there is an intolerant minority it always becomes the most popular so a quick example is
okay you're a vegan it's actually a great example if you're a vegan when me and you hang out it's
almost guaranteed that we're going to eat at a vegan restaurant or a restaurant that has vegan
food because you can't eat meat but I'm willing to eat vegan food right yeah yeah so similarly
no one can avoid JavaScript because it runs on the browser PHP developers are willing to
write JavaScript because they have to it runs on the browser okay and but JavaScript developers
don't really need to write PHP or whatever other language so I think it's just that force drives
it like I wasn't a jobs from the back and developer for a long time I did a bunch of other languages
on the back end I didn't really want to use jobs from the back end because I liked other languages
and ecosystems better but it just got to a point where JavaScript got so big because of this minority
rule thing I think and then yeah like what scale comes problems but also benefits so here's here's
what I will say Laravelle is like a paradise because they have a great BDFL and Taylor right
benevolent dictator for life whatever kind of like Linus okay yeah which is awesome but if you
think about continuity and like it like relies on like one amazing person right now which is
completely fine for PHP like that person is gonna be around for a very long time so it's not a big
deal but it's thinking in terms of like like long term and like really thinking about the downsides
like that is downside like we have more chaos but we also have way more resilience yeah so it's
the bus factor like if if something happened to Taylor or if he just decides he's got his lambo
and his amazing life and he's just gonna quit yeah then the Laravelle community has to figure out
how to go on without him there is no similar figurehead in JavaScript land is there if Guillermo decides
he's done he's gonna live on his angel investments or whatever I think JavaScript will keep going
the way it is now yeah like there's no one person that really holds a future of it
and like I said like I'm describing this in an extreme way I'm sure Laravelle's like
well run where people can take over but just not to that same degree and yeah I think
yes the chaos is annoying but like there is good that comes from it but I also completely get where
you also can just not want to deal with that that also makes complete sense
so this was all kind of a downer I was really excited and then you said all this stuff about
minority reporting and whatever and now I think about how you're judging me because I'm a vegan
you're judging me because I want to do Laravelle I actually want to move to Finland it's a thing
that I would love to do if they would accept me I don't know if the Laravelle community will
accept me it's like they don't want a bunch of Americans just rushing into Finland they probably
don't want a bunch of us coming from the JavaScript ecosystem we'll bring all our drama with us
the worst part about being vegan is that everyone can eat our food so like the deli case
at mama jeans they have sushi and they only have like two different kinds of vegetable only
like vegan friendly sushi vegetable rolls and stuff but everyone gets them even if they're
not vegan so then they run out of that every single day and when we go it's a 50/50 chance
that we can actually get the kind we like because all you meat eaters eating up our veggies
sucks sorry I don't know where that came from okay don't worry I never get veggie sushi so
thank you I'm not contributing to your problem thank you so much I did think it was funny doing
the Laravelle stuff like they didn't escape NPM you have to like NPM install an NPM build like
there's like a piece of your front end that still lives in that world yeah I don't think it's
inescapable you can't escape JavaScript therefore it'll always be around like I don't want like if
I just considered nothing else like I wouldn't be using JavaScript as my back-end language but
it's just inescapable and because inescapable there is and I definitely underestimated this
when I was outside of the JavaScript on the back-end world I was like why do people care so much
they're back-end and their front-end language is the same like who cares like it is it's not
big deal they're different and it's not a big deal they're different but there is a crazy amount of
synergy you get when the back-end and the front-end is in the same language and with SST we've like
made your infrastructure code in the same language as well you just get better at the language no
matter what what you're doing and that is kind of nice and now that I have it like I'm like not
super willing to give that up yeah I do I am but I am jealous for all the same reasons and I
I definitely look to that world to understand where our bar should be because their bar is so
much higher on what is like a good experience what's a good entry-level experience for a new project
what is considered complete for a framework yeah I think we can get there and I think the
right people are like in entering the JavaScript world now that'll help us get there but yeah we
have a long way to go five years I would say yeah I mean there aren't there like people who tried
the Adonis Adonis redwood like are these things just what why do people not run with those I think
redwood is a little bit different because okay so here's the issue in the JavaScript well it makes
us hard because I was thinking about this this morning I was like okay if I was gonna take SST
and build another like bloodstream the thing you were using but I was gonna build an equivalent
like what what could what would that look like and I realized like I wouldn't even be comfortable
saying that you should use TRPC or you should use REST or you should use GraphQL or you should use
replica whatever because I can't make I just don't feel like I have the ability to make that strong
of a decision in the JavaScript world yeah I am not super clear on why it's easier to do that
in other ecosystems because for me I feel there's all kinds of use cases and I personally wouldn't
always just use one of those things yeah I struggle to like create like a really complete
boilerplate for that reason but yeah I'm not sure why that seems to fly in like again maybe just
because they're smaller is yeah I was gonna say in like little era the world is there just one of
all those things and you don't have to make decisions because there's just one way of doing it sounds
nice oh okay so here's like the root issue or here's an example of the problem right if I built
a starter he would have to work whether you're building linear or you're building I don't know
like like an e-commerce website or something or I don't know something some other sass it's not
like intense like linear and the PHP world no one would try to build a linear so they do the
inertia thing have you seen that yeah exactly I've seen that I'm not saying you can't use front
frameworks there but yeah an inertial yeah I don't know I I didn't want to use it because I
was trying to escape the next sass world like that was my whole thing and then it's like inertia
plus next s like no don't take me back I thought it was for like using the frameworks directly like
reactor yeah you can use react view but it said with next s I think you can like build a next
sass app but you just want to build your back end with PHP I guess yeah I guess that's the thing
I got to learn PHP so I can actually be a larval dev because I don't actually know any PHP that's
the other issue I do think TypeScript is a better language than PHP I mean I'm obviously going to
say that because I'm really into going crazy with types and not everyone's into whether any types
in PHP is it does it have a type it does it does have a type system I think the newest version of
PHP types is some Aaron mentioned he doesn't even use it like he hasn't even tried it why is there
not use types why is Aaron wrong he's asked like what give me a compelling reason to use it and
no one has been able to convince him of anything compelling enough that sounds exciting enough for
him to try it out wait we have compelling reasons to use type systems right not really I feel like
someone give him a compelling reason no I feel like I've struggled with this problem for like a
decade now I don't know why I thought we liked types no I love types and I think everyone should
use them but that's different from me being able to get someone excited about types when they don't
understand it oh Aaron's here Aaron's saying he doesn't like types what do you mean we're on a
podcast next what are you talking about who's here Aaron's not here do you want to bring Aaron on
I mean we can yeah we can bring Aaron talk about larval and how Aaron has types type takes but yeah
I don't I love types I just have never been able to found find a convincing way to get someone
excited about trying them out when they aren't already using them understanding the benefits
okay it's hardly explained I think we'll see if you can see if you can convince Aaron
when he comes on this is Aaron Francis joining us from plant scale here I am I was listening in
the car I was out getting coffee and I was listening in the car and I made it just in time go ahead
decks I've seen that PHP has types mm-hmm I'm curious what that means and I'm curious why you're
not like jumping to like go try that out great question I just don't like them so here's the deal
um fair we have types and I think a lot of people think of PHP is like the 5.2 days which was like
you know 15 years ago where it was just the wild wild west we have full on we have full on type
systems now I think in like eight points something we have generics which I understand can be very
fancy I haven't I haven't dug into them very much um I feel like I'm kind of a type incrementalist
in in PHP we have a lot more like proper classes than something like JavaScript so in
JavaScript my understanding is from what I see on on Twitter which is most of my understanding
my understanding is you pass around a lot of objects right just just objects and they have this
amorphous shape and the type system helps enforce like hey this object that I'm passing around it
conforms to the user type or the or the podcast type or the post type and it's like oh that's helpful
because I know I can look for user name or podcast title right I kind of I kind of buy that in PHP
we would be passing around something like a user object like an actual proper class or a podcast
episode class and if you're using you know an IDE or if you're like using PHP storm or something
you get all of that like you get all of that that autocomplete and if you type hint the um
if you type hint the method that accepts the podcast the actual language will say like hey you passed
a user instead of a podcast I'm gonna like I'm gonna blow up and so you can't run um now I think
that is runtime and not like compile because we don't do that so there's a little bit of a difference
there but I where I where I land is like I like type hinting objects like I I like knowing that my
process podcast method is going to receive a podcast object like yeah that makes me feel pretty
comfortable it's it's when you get into stuff like I'm gonna type hint or I'm gonna make a type called
positive integer so that I always know that when I'm charging my user the type is positive
integer I'm like I don't understand the overhead of creating this creating this very base type of
positive integer to protect who am I protecting I think is always the question like what what are
you guys not writing tests not you two but like the the community are you all right I'm not okay
well sorry um because people are always like well how do you know like I never write bugs because I
have a type system and I'm like I don't understand all the bugs that are coming from mismatched types
I understand bugs that are coming from me doing something silly but not because I'm passing you know
a string instead of a integer so that's kind of like my my broad stance so pick that apart as you
will yeah I think that makes sense I think the way I see it is there's almost like two level not
not two but we'll start with two there's like two levels to type systems so there's the basic like
like keep track of the structure of the things I'm passing around which it sounds like if you're
yeah if you're using any language of classes like you kind of already get that without having an
additional set of annotations annotating everything if and most and a lot of languages like that's
kind of where they stop and I think there's this weird gap between that and the next level where
you can add like a few more features but if it's kind of like useless like examples you get right
like yeah those aren't like game-changing I need to have it features but then the next there's like a
language can get a more complex type system if they kind of keep going on that path they can
kind of like break through to another level which is where I think TypeScript has gone to where you
can do like all sorts of like interesting derivations and inference and all kinds of fancy things that
realistically like the end user really never sees it the end developer really never sees
that stuff or needs to touch it but it allows for some like really insane just kind of features in
in when you're using a certain library or using you know certain things if you look at some of
the libraries that do this like you know drizzles like the ORM that new one if you look at like all
the tansec all tanners stuff he's been rewriting on the front end they all kind of follow this model
where the end user just is writing plain JavaScript it's like it's almost like someone's they're like
guiding them on how they're how they're structuring things so they're just weird gap where languages
don't go that far whereas kind of like I don't see the huge benefit of the type system I feel
that way about go I feel like I like everything about go but I feel that type system doesn't go
far enough so it's just kind of it's like annoying type system to deal with where I'm like
like it's not really doing enough for me and it's and again the thing I'm describing like
this next level thing it's really it's a hard to understand if you understand it like I don't
know how else to explain it if I think back to when I understood it I can remember I just remember
like trying a bunch of stuff in TypeScript and like realizing I could do certain things and then that
it turned out that was like a whole category of stuff that didn't know existed but yeah I think
there's like light type systems where I'm like yeah that's that's probably good enough like in
the PHP world what you have is probably definitely good enough and going like 10% more isn't worth
it unless you're going to go like 100% further with the type system if that makes sense and there's
like levels passed that there's like languages with like a really like correct type system like
yeah like the old camels and the Haskells things like that but yeah I think like there's a different
stops on the station if that makes sense yeah that that totally makes it so I will freely admit that
like I haven't I haven't really dug in to TypeScript and I see all these people as a corollary
corollary be like oh man tailwind sucks and I'm like you just got to try tailwind man
and I admit like I'm the person saying TypeScript sucks but I haven't used it like another thing
is PHP community has been relatively slow to adopt more strict typing and I have found in my career
that I I have gotten outsized advantages from ignoring things until like until I'm sure that
they're gonna stick around and so for example Laravel has just recently adopted stronger typing
in Laravel core and so that to me is a signal that like okay Aaron it's time to you know it's time
to move on from 2014 and like catch up a little bit to typing and so I'm now at the point like I'm
now at the point in my career where it's like okay the the benevolent dictator Taylor has decided
we're gonna bring some typing to the core and now it's time for me to say okay well I guess
types are gonna stick around for a while what I don't want to do is I don't want to be the one
expending all of my energy trying to convince Laravel to bring typing to Laravel because I got
other stuff I got to do but now that like now that it's here it's like all right well I guess
types one like I was able to success successfully like ignore angular until it went away I ignored
microservices till they went away I'm still waiting for Docker to go away but like I just
ignore a lot of stuff and then when somebody says like when Laravel says hey we're gonna use
Vue.js now I'm like all right well I guess I got to learn Vue.js and it's been fantastic and I love
it and so I will admit that part of it is like I just don't want to learn it until I'm sure that
it's gonna stick around and now it seems like it's gonna stick around I was gonna say the adoption
curve thing is is interesting because naturally this stuff at the early part of the adoption curve
you're gonna find you're gonna have this weird combination of so like you probably work on
like real products I work on products for their developers right yeah so I tend to be more on
like extremely early adoption of things because I'm like trying to figure out opportunities for
me to build stuff for their developers so I find a lot of the people in that space are
they're all similar to me that we're trying to like figure out the next thing the paradox here
is most of the things in this space are gonna die because they're in we're like in this early zone
so I think a lot of conversation is this weird clash of people in my area talking with people
in your area and we're like kind of doing very different things and you really don't need to be
listening to what we're talking about because we're debating with each other on where we what we're
thinking is gonna make it through and we each have different opinions on it and like one out of 10
of us are gonna be right right so yeah it does make sense if you're just building like like we can
actual thing not just stuff for other developers that you're not at the same part adoption curve
as the rest of us I feel like I'm on Twitter I hate this conversation so much I'm sorry
this is like the same stuff I can't stand listening to when you guys talk about types on
Twitter yeah discord um also as as a show note feel free to tell me to leave whenever once I've
served no no I want to actually talk to you no that's the last thing in the world we should have
talked about with you because you work at planet scale you're actually a good dev rel which is
like thanks unicorn yeah there's that there's I want to know what a perfect Saturday is for Aaron
because someone asked that and I have all kinds of things I want to talk to Aaron about Larry
though hey I am I am here I got my coffee I got my studio what do you want to talk about give me
give me one and I'll pick one that's what we want to talk about I talk about dev rel stuff I
yeah we can ask you an open-ended question of like is this your first role as in being a dev rel
yeah so I was for a minute I was like a marketing engineer at Tupole the pair programming company
which is amazing um for literally like six months and then Ben and I the CEO and I decided like no
y'all need like a you'll need a marketer not someone who's gonna like you know build stuff and talk
about it and so then after that I went to I went to planet scale and this is my first role as like
a developer you know whatever relations evangelist educator I have opinions on that but this is my
first role and that prior to that I spent like six years at a property tax company in Texas where
I live building their internal CRM and it was wonderful I loved it yeah so I'm curious like when
you shifted into this role uh you kind of the plant scale like tell you what their philosophy
around it was or were you like did you have to kind of help them figure it out uh like what did
like what's your goal in your job um my goal is to be happy Dax so here like when I when I joined
when I joined planet scale um I joined because and I think Dax you know I talked a little bit
about this philosophy in the last episode I joined because I was already doing the job that they were
trying to hire someone to do I just wasn't doing it for them so I joined because I was writing
articles about my sequel and I was talking about my sequel and they looked and were like hey we're
trying right now to hire someone to do this under our banner we come do this for us and so they're
like I think the philosophical lesson there is like do the work and put yourself out publicly
and see what happens um because I got a DM from Sam the CEO that was like hey how come you don't
work for us and it's like dude no one's ever asked me to work for you like why would I work for you
and so he said you know hey I like what you're doing we're we're trying to hire developer
educator which I think is nuanced do you want to come do that for us and I was like what does it
mean he said I just kind of do the exact same thing you're doing but more of it and get paid for
it I was like yeah that sounds great and so I think the nuance there is that I am I am a
developer educator and I listen I'm new to this like be a public presence for a company I think
there is a whole community of developer relations that is a little bit different and not a community
that I'm like super involved in I think the developer relations community has structure and
history and leaders and opinions and I'm just like I don't have any I'm I am not a part of that
community and so I think what is slightly different for me is I'm a developer educator and my job
specifically we we have it really good at planet scale because our product is my sequel and my
sequel is broad and huge and useful and useful apart from planet scale I'm biased but I think
it's best on planet scale but it's incredibly useful if you just put it on a box yourself right
and so my job is to like teach people how to use my sequel effectively and as a part of that
hopefully we will convince them that like you can use my sequel effectively and you can use it
most effectively on planet scale but if if you don't choose to come to planet scale we're still
going to give you like all the knowledge you need to to use it effectively and we have this nice
split of like I don't know the lower level of like how to run my sequel effectively and so I don't
teach people how to do that but that's great because that's what planet scale does anyway so we have
this nice split kind of naturally the the broadness is something I've been thinking about so much I'm
so grateful for it I think it's easy when your company is doing a broad space because then this
part of your job it's very easy to deliver broad value like so for us you know we build a very
specific framework but we're just in the serverless space we want to help people do stuff in a serverless
way and help people figure out what the best way to do things is so I get to like talk about
anything like anything related to serverless whether it's on the more on the front-end side
more on the back-end side like that's fun and I can kind of talk about it and it's like not hard
for me to not be talking about SST every day because our scope is so broad like we're what we're
down to like do anything and my sequel is the same where you know there's so much information
that's not planet scale specific and that I find is the best probably only form of like
I am whatever you want to call this category of thing like when companies have people publicly
talking about things like that's the only form of it that I engage with the part that drives me
crazy is when the company's scope and product is very small and specific which is fine because a lot
value and opportunity there but then this side of it like the dev role side of it ends up being
really weird because they can only ever talk about this very specific thing and they need to talk
about it as though it's going to solve every possible scenario every possible problem and like
for me that just kind of loses authenticity there and I think I actually find that's most of it I
would say like 90 percent of companies fall into this category I think like they could do what Aaron
and planet scale are doing in some form like I think of the off-case instead of just making a
bunch of videos they're like here's how this auth service works with Vercel and here's how it
works with whatever they could just like teach people about auth I mean right they could do the
thing where there's like there are a lot of concepts here people are fuzzy on and the more you understand
about auth the more likely you're like I don't want to do this I want to pay someone to just do this
for me right could they do that yeah I mean that all this is actually a good example because I was
actually thinking about it as it's hard to make that broad but you're right because you can just
talk about how OAuth works how OIDC works yeah the history of it like why this all makes sense
like why like why these standards exist and how they like there's just so much you can talk about
there but as many of the part that's going to be spicy you can only do that if you're an expert
in those things and when planet scale hired Aaron they didn't hire him because he was an expert at
he didn't have like years of experience doing this role they hired him because he has a lot of
experience with my sequel and they figured he could learn this other stuff and figure out his own
flavor of it I think that's a much better approach like if you are a company doing auth like make
sure you have someone that's just like the guy that that that can do all the auth stuff so yeah I
think that's maybe where it's hard for like some with a lot of devil experience to like shift into
like one day they're working at a database company the next day they're working on off company the
next day you know you can't become an expert that's the other problem yeah the famous like DevRels
for hire the ones that are on all the conferences like when you don't know what company they work
for at the conference they show up at that's a problem like there's just no authenticity there
like you're shilling a different thing this week that's just that loses everything that we're
talking about which is the thing that's so great about what Aaron's doing at plant scale yeah there
are only there are only a few of these roles I could fill and plant scale is one I would say
Laravel is another if they needed any evangelism I could do that but I would feel like I would feel
really out over my skis if I were at some other company where it was like I'm being paid to evangelize
something and I am the junior here because when like at a planet scale or with Laravel
I can talk intelligently about the shortcomings like I know what the trade-offs are and so when
somebody's like hey I need I need to run an analytics database I can be like I don't think
my SQL is right for that whereas if I were if I were the junior I was like yeah data you said
database I say database like we're talking about the same thing it's like oh boy we're not talking
about the same thing and so like if I were if I were to go to some other company I would feel
really insecure but that's my personality I think some people don't feel insecure they just talk
like they're the expert I'm like wait I know I know more than you about this thing and I know
that you're being paid to say this and you're wrong and that's where I think it's like oh gosh
this is this is a weird and that's why I said I'm not a part of the dev rel because there's a whole
like community I just I teach people how to use my SQL and I think planet scale so good place to do
that yeah yeah I think there's a lot of room to grow hopefully these people hear these kind of
things as constructive criticism like I think there's a lot of room for companies startups to do
better in this area in terms of marketing their products this this whole podcast has been so technical
and so like that we started this without a topic and it just feels like it's it's had like a
track we're going places we can talk about peanut butter and jelly sandwiches if you want let's do
that let's listen I listened to yesterday's episode yeah what's your what's your perfect
Saturday Aaron let's talk about something that's on tech yeah well unfortunately it might be tech
anyway um I was I was just on yesterday I don't know if y'all know Justin Jackson he has a podcast
called build your sass and yeah transistor we use it for this podcast yeah yeah yeah exactly I was
on with him yesterday talking about how at this phase in my life um I'm really trying to like
change the trajectory of my life and so I'm working extremely hard in this era and I call it like my
maximum effort era and it will you know that era will end at some point and so right now my perfect
Saturday is I have two kids who just turned to their twins um my perfect Saturday right now is
usually um we wake up you know seven seven thirty get the kids up do the whole breakfast thing and
then I usually take the kids out so that the boss my wife has some time just like home alone you know
just to like yeah sit and stare at the wall and let the brain come down a little bit um
so I take the kids out and then you know we come back and we usually like we usually hang out this
past weekend we went to the firetruck museum here in Dallas and the kids lost their freaking minds
it was so much fun they just firetruck you you just like all day long so a lot of time with family
and then when they nap um and then in the afternoons I spend a lot of time just like doing side work
and I was telling Justin yesterday I don't have hobbies I don't play video games I don't watch sports
I just freaking work and I'm happy like I like doing that because I'm think I like I am pursuing
my dreams and this is what I want to do and so that's that's my uninspired take for a Saturday
right now yeah this is I mean we're gonna sound I guess people gonna hear this and then again sound
like these are toxic Americans but yeah I love getting worked on on the weekend because it feels
like a bonus it feels like the expectation was zero but again our work done on the weekend it
feels like 10 times more important than or more relevant than that's exactly how I think about it
like as soon as Saturday morning comes around it's like anything I get done today and tomorrow
it's just gravy and that's I love it I love the psychology of there's no pressure it's like I'm
just getting ahead yeah that's awesome and like I'm fully aware of the toxic hustle bro thing and
I think I'm trying literally I'm trying to like make my dreams come true and like it just so happens
that I'm not a painter and I'm not an artist and I'm not I just I happen to be a programmer and so
when I'm like when I am out here working and hustling on the thing that I want my life to be it looks
like the exact same thing that I do nine to five for planet scale so it feels like oh geez he just
works all the time but it's like yeah I'm trying to change I'm trying to change my life and I'm
I'm not a painter so I just I just program more you know yeah no when it's your hobby that's always
been my my problem is like this is what I do for fun it makes me feel really guilty in my
relationship with my wife because every time I'm in my office I'm having a great time she knows
that she's not having a great time so it does feel very like I wish you could live your dream
okay now we're getting too deep I don't want to go back cuddle back to sandwiches back to sandwiches
yeah anything else please my wife doesn't she doesn't sorry on Saturdays we don't just leave her
she leaves the house so all we can she was gone and it's just me and the boys at the house smart
well I have a dog and two cats so that's something you just do it every one all the time that's
amazing oh just soak it up Dax yeah for real if you plan to have kids and not like I mean I love
my kids they're the best thing in the world but it's just life is so different before and after
kids that if I could go back I would have viewed that time before we had kids so differently we just
had all the time in the world to do whatever we wanted and you don't realize it there's literally
everyone in my life is telling me this so I don't I don't think I would take it for granted I'm gonna
miss it yeah okay everyone is saying the exact same thing so okay and I just I just want to hear
just give me just give me two minutes on on Laravel I know that we're Finland or Sweden or whatever
but like tell me how much you loved it so I just I can't believe like there's not more people in
the JavaScript community talking about it or like that have had any brushes with it I've seen people
on Twitter now say like yeah I see the same stuff I see people happy and I just have never tried
like why haven't we tried it's just like I know PHP is a whole nother thing I have to learn
but I've done it with so many other languages why would I be hesitant to learn PHP to get in on this
Laravel thing I don't know man we've seen you try to learn Elixir okay okay just go get it all out
have you learned other languages have I I've done all kinds of stuff probably I would say so Python
Jython okay I'm gonna stop I thought you post the other day you got started in Jython that's
what they did in college that was the first thing they taught us it was like here we're going to
teach you a weird if Python and Java had a baby language that's your first exposure to program
and you stuck with it no no I just did in college like that was I'm saying like you didn't give up on
programming right there oh yeah yeah I kept I kept with the programming thing yeah so Laravel
the starter project though it's just incredible uh and it just the cohesiveness of like going
through the Laravel getting started from Laravel.com the getting started it's just like there's an
answer for all the things and you don't feel like you have to make 50 decisions for every little
piece of it it's like yeah you got to pick a database and there's a few options but it's like
it holds your hand through all of it all of that's great I know a lot of technologies have that
but there's something different with once I did the jetpack thing with Laravel and I saw the project
it's very clear it's so different so different from the JavaScript ecosystem one like the project
is not like optimized for how few files and how little code can there be it's like a ton of stuff
but like it's got a lot of functionality out of the box I don't know I've said a lot of the same
things in like three different formats so if you're hearing this out of my mouth for the third time
I'm sorry I'm just very excited I don't know I want to play with it more yeah I mean like that
cohesiveness you felt I definitely don't take that for granted it's really hard to pull that off
like all the way from like every part of it feeling the same like it's one unit as opposed to a
bunch of things glued together it it is really hard to do that and it's really impressive
what something can do that I haven't deployed it yet like I can't wait to use vapor and I can't
wait to play with all these other there's just so many different Laravel products and knowing that
they're all kind of like under one roof and they have some that cohesiveness the docs are amazing
I love the the comments the lore around like his his three-line comments that are all like
staggered it's true they're all over the place it's incredible the attention to detail all of it
I'm just I'm a big fan yeah I will say I was you know listening while I was getting my coffee
before I came on I think the benevolent dictator plays a huge role I also think the fact that Laravel
is itself a company so it's like if DHH didn't have base camp and DHH and 37 signals spent all of
their time energy and money on rails I feel like it would be closer to Laravel but Laravel is a
company that has like five or six employees and they have SaaS products so they are using Laravel
to build full on SaaS products and they're spending all of their time and all of their money to make
Laravel the ecosystem better for Laravel developers and so that's that's where you end up with things
like vapor and forge and horizon and all that stuff is because they were building a SaaS and we're
like man running queues sucks what if we built a queue management package and I'm like okay we can
do that in open source and it makes sense to like tightly integrate it because they're Laravel LLC
of course it's going to be integrated with Laravel so I think that is part of the secret sauce is
Taylor this is gonna sound mean Taylor has nothing else Taylor has Laravel like he has Laravel
he's not running base camp he's not running you know high rise or whatever he's running Laravel
and so he just just focuses on that and driving the Lambo so I'll leave it there yeah I love that
model like we obviously at SST that's a big exact same model we're trying to recreate like just
having it like we like it's proven out there so we can like trust that we can like it makes sense
but yeah everything about it is awesome like how small the company can stay and like how much
impact they can have despite that like it's it clicks with everything like we want as a team
Aaron thank you so much for coming out we didn't even say like Aaron Francis this is Aaron Francis
joining us from planet scale we just said like hey Aaron yeah it's gonna be kind of a weird
transition in the middle of the podcast well you just said it you just said it I just said it yeah
thanks for having me on I'm glad I'm glad I was chatting in the twitch and y'all could pull me on
I really appreciate being here yeah it was great to have you all right Dax anything we want to say
before we wrap this up nope that's all nope that's all we never have anything at the end goodbye